>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1, NE
FIGHTING IN SYRIA AFTER A WEEK
OF PEACE TALKS
THE UNITED STATES AND RUSSIA
TRADE IDEAS ABOUT HOW TO END THE
3-YEAR-OLD CONFLICT.
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT I
THE SHADOW OF THE SUPER BOWL
AN EFFORT TO COMBAT SE
TRAFFICKING.
>> I WAS FORCED TO GO TO BARS,
RESTAURANTS OR HOTELS.
>> PEOPLE DON'T REALIZE THES
KIND OF UNDERSIDE OF THE
CELEBRATIONS
>>> AND NEW ALLEGATIONS AGAINS
CHRIS CHRISTIE
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
NEW YORK, HARI SREENIVASAN
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
AFTER A WEEK OF UNSUCCESSFUL
PEACE TALKS THE SYRIAN MILITAR
BOMBED AND KILLED AT LEAST EIGHT
PEOPLE
THIS VIDEO IS OBTAINED B
REUTERS WHICH WAS CAPTURED O
SOCIAL MEDIA
THE NEWS AGENCY SAID IT COUL
BAN KI MOON URGED SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY AND SERGE
LAVROV TO PRESS FOR A POLITICA
SOLUTION TO THE WAR IN SYRIA
THE 3-YEAR-OLD CONFLICT HA
CLAIMED 130,000 PEOPLE
AT THAT SAME CONFERENCE, KERRY
CALLED ON RUSSIA TO LET UKRAIN
CHOOSE ITS OWN POLITICAL PATH.
THEY BACKED AWAY FROM CLOSER
TIES TO THE EUROPEAN UNION UNDER
PRESSURE FROM RUSSIA
SPARKING HUGE AND VIOLEN
PROTESTS
>> THE VAST MAJORITY O
UKRAINIANS WANT TO LIVE FREELY
IN A SAFE AND PROSPEROUS COUNTRY
AND THEY ARE FIGHTING FOR TH
RIGHTS TO ASSOCIATE WITH
PARTNERS WHO WILL HELP THE
REALIZE THEIR ASPIRATIONS AN
THEY HAVE DECIDED THAT THA
MEANS THEIR FUTURES DO NOT HAV
TO LIE WITH ONE COUNTRY ALON
AND CERTAINLY NOT COERCED.
>> JUST ONE DAY BEFORE NATIONA
ELECTIONS, THERE WAS A FLARE-U
OF VIOLENCE TODAY IN BANGKOK
THAILAND
JOURNALISTS AND OTHERS SCRAMBLED
FOR COVER AFTER GUNSHOTS RAN
OUT.
AT LEAST THREE PEOPLE WERE
REPORTED WOUNDED
>>> AT LEAST 14 PEOPLE ARE DEA
AND MANY ARE MISSING AFTER A
VOLCANO ERUPTED TODAY IN WESTERN
INDONESIA.
MT. SINABUNG SPEWED HOT ROCKS
MILE INTO THE AIR.
FORCING THE EVACUATION OF TENS
OF THOUSANDS YESTERDAY
VILLAGERS WHO HAD FLED THE ARE
YESTERDAY RETURNED HOME THINKING
IT WAS SAFE.
>>> IN AUSTRALIA, DEMONSTRATIONS
AGAINST A NEW PROGRAM TO SHOOT
SHARKS
THOUSANDS GATHERED ACROSS TH
COUNTRY SAID IT WAS INHUMANE
THE SHARKS CAUGHT LONGER THA
TEN FEET WILL BE KILL AND TH
PLAN WENT INTO EFFECT FOLLOWIN
SEVEN FATAL SHARK ATTACKS DURING
THE PAST THREE YEARS IN WESTER
AUSTRALIA.
>>> NEW YORK CITY'S FORMER MAYOR
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG HAS A NEW JOB.
HE WAS NAMED AS SPECIAL ENVO
FOR THE UNITED NATIONS
RESPONSIBLE FOR WORKING WITH
CITIES AROUND THE WORLD TO
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE.
DURING HIS 12 YEARS IN OFFICE,
BLOOMBERG LAUNCHED AN AMBITIOU
PLAN TO CURB CARBON EMISSIONS.
THE CITY'S GREEN HOUSE GAS
EMISSION REPORTEDLY HAVE DROPPED
19% SINCE 2005
>>> FROM MONTANA TONIGHT, WORD
THAT THE CATHOLIC DIOCESE IN
HELENA HAS FILED FOR BANKRUPTCY.
THIS AFTER A $15 MILLION
SETTLEMENT OF A LAWSUIT ALLEGING
THAT PRIEST WERE GUILTY OF
SEXUAL ABUSE AND THAT THE CHURCH
OFFICIALS HAD COVERED IT UP.
HELENA IS THE 11th TO FILE FOU
BANKRUPTCY SINCE 2004.
>>> AND THERE'S POTENTIALL
PROMISING NEWS FOR THE BLIND
ADULT STEM CELLS TAKEN FROM TH
DONATED EYES OF DEAD PEOPL
RESTORED LIMITED VISION TO
COMPLETELY BLIND RATS.
RESEARCHERS BELIEVE THE CELL
COULD EVENTUALLY HELP PEOPLE
WITH MACULAR DEGENERATION AN
RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA
HUMAN TRIALS ARE EXPECTED TO
BEGIN IN THREE YEARS
>>> THREE THERE'S A NEW AN
POTENTIALLY IMPORTAN
DEVELOPMENT IN CHRIS CHRISTIE.
FOR MORE ON THAT, WE ARE JOINE
BY MICHAEL ARON, THE CHIEF
POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT FOR WJNT
NEWS
SO WHAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY AND
WHY IS IT SO IMPORTANT
>> LATE YESTERDAY, DAVID
WILDSTEIN, THE FORMER PORT
AUTHORITY OFFICIAL AT THE CENTER
OF THE LANE CLOSURES THROUGH HIS
ATTORNEY ASKED THE POR
AUTHORITY TO PAY FOR HIS LEGAL
DEFENSE.
SOMETHING THEY HAD SAID THEY
WON'T DO
IN THE THREE-PAGE LETTER ASKIN
THE PORT AUTHORITY TO PAY FO
HIS LEGAL DEFENSE, THE ATTORNE
WRITES, EVIDENCE EXISTS AS WEL
TYING MR. CHRISTIE TO HAVING
KNOWLEDGE OF THE LANE CLOSURES
DURING THE PERIOD WHEN THE LANES
WERE CLOSED CONTRARY TO WHAT THE
BASICALLY, ACCUSING THE GOVERNOR
OF HAVING LIE AND WHEN PEOPL
FIRST HEARD THIS THEY THOUGH
THE GOVERNOR IS GOING DOWN
HE LIED.
BUT I WENT BACK TO THE
TRANSCRIPT OF THE GOVERNOR'S
PRESS CONFERENCE ON THIS 3 1/2
WEEKS AGO --
>> TWO-HOUR PRESS CONFERENCE
>> AND 26-PAGE TRANSCRIPT, O
PAGE 5, HE SAYS I KNEW NOTHING
ABOUT THIS
UNTIL IT STARTED TO BE REPORTE
AND EVEN THEN I WAS TOLD IT WA
A TRAFFIC STUDY.
IT WAS IN THE PAPERS AND
WILDSTEIN SAID HE KNEW ABOUT I
DURING THE CLOSURES THAT COULD
HAVE BEEN AS LATE AS THURSDAY.
CHRISTIE IS SAYING I LEARN ABOUT
IT ON FRIDAY
I DON'T KNOW THAT THEY'RE REALLY
THAT FAR APART IN WHAT THEY'RE
SAYING
WHILE THE TABLOIDS IN NEW YORK
SAY GOV, YOU'RE LYING IS THA
SUCH A BIG LIE
>> OKAY.
THIS DEFECTION, I MEAN, PEOPLE
WILL ATTRIBUTE DIFFERENT
SAYING HE'LL GET A MORE LENIEN
SENTENCE IF HE TURNS ON TH
GOVERNOR
ARE THERE MORE IN THE INNE
CIRCLE
>> THERE ARE
HE'S CLEARLY LOOKING FOR
IMMUNITY
THIS IS THE FOURTH TIME HE O
HIS LAWYER HAVE SIGNALLED HE
WOULD LIKE TO BE IMMUNE FROM
PROSECUTION AND HE HAS MORE TO
SAY.
HE'S LOOKING FOR HELP WITH HIS
LEGAL BILLS THAT ARE GOING TO BE
CONSIDERABLE
AT THE SAME TIME, YESTERDAY BILL
STEPPIAN, THE FORMER CAMPAIG
MANAGER THROUGH HIS ATTORNEY
INDICATED HE WON'T COMPLY WITH
THE LEGISLATIVE SUBPOENA EITHE
FOR DOCUMENTS OR TESTIMONY
HE'LL TAKE THE FIFTH
AND BRIDGET KELLY HAS CHANGE
LAWYERS HAS WEEK
GOING FROM A -- SOMEONE WH
SEEMED TO BE CLOSE TO CHRI
CHRISTIE TO A MUCH MORE BULLDOG,
AGGRESSIVE DEMOCRATIC LEANIN
WHITE COLLAR DEFENSE ATTORNEY,
SOME SAY THE BEST IN THE STATE
MICHAEL PRICHLY.
THEY MIGHT HAVE A DEAL THE
WOULD LIKE TO PRESENT TO THE
U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
>> AND WILDSTEIN HAS A LON
HISTORY WITH CHRISTIE.
>> THEY WENT TO HIGH SCHOO
TOGETHER
CHRIS CHRISTIE AND DAVID
WILDSTEIN WENT TO VOLUNTEER FO
TOM KEAN, SR., RUNNING FOR
GOVERNOR IN 1977
THE GOVERNOR SAID AT HIS PRESS
CONFERENCE THIS NOTION THAT HE'S
MY CHILDHOOD FRIEND, MY HIGH
SCHOOL FRIEND IS WAY OVERBLOWN
I WAS CLASS PRESIDENT AND AN
ATHLETE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT DAVID WA
DOING.
BUT WHAT'S BEEN LOST IN ALL OF
THIS IS THAT FOR THE LAST TE
YEARS, DAVID WILDSTEIN RAN A
WEBSITE, POLITICAL WEBSITE AND I
CAN'T IMAGINE THAT CHRIS
CHRISTIE DIDN'T COMMUNICATE AS
U.S. ATTORNEY WITH DAVID
WILDSTEIN QUITE A BIT TO GET THE
MESSAGE OUT ABOUT THE VARIOU
UNDERTAKINGS THAT HE WAS BEHIND.
ALL THOSE TEN YEARS HE WAS
BUILDING HIS NAME AND HIS BRAND.
>> SO FINALLY, THERE ARE
MULTIPLE INVESTIGATION
UNDERWAY, AND ONE LOOKING AT
SORT OF BRIDGE GATE.
ANOTHER ONE LOOKING AT WHETHER
THE GOVERNOR USED SANDY FUNDS IN
FORMS OF RETRIBUTION OR AS A
REWARD FOR SUPPORTING HIM.
WHERE ARE THESE INVESTIGATIONS
WHAT'S THE PACE OF THEM?
>> THEY'RE GOING TO GO SLOW IT
FEELS LIKE
I GUESS ANOTHER BIG REVELATION
OR SOME BOMBSHELL PIECE OF
TESTIMONY COULD SPEED THINGS UP.
BUT THE LEGISLATIVE SUBPOENA
THE FIRST ROUND TO 18 PEOPLE AND
TWO ORGANIZATIONS THE GOVERNOR'S
OFFICE AND HIS CAMPAIG
COMMUNITY ARE DUE ON MONDAY.
I IMAGINE IT WOULD TAKE TH
STAFF AND THE LEADS OF THA
COMMITTEE AT LEAST A WEEK OR TEN
DAYS TO SIFT THROUGH THAT,
DECIDE WHAT THEY WANT TO RELEASE
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE U.S. ATTORNEY WE LEARNED
YESTERDAY THROUGH INDIRECT MEANS
IS LOOKING AT BOTH BRIDGE GATE
AS WE CALL IT AND THE SAND
RECOVERY
THE USE OF SANDY FUNDS
THEY HAVE IMPANELED THE GRAN
JURY AND THAT PROCESS COULD TAKE
MONTHS
>> MICHAEL ARON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
WHILE THE SUPER BOWL SHOWDOWN IS
ABOUT 24 HOURS AWAY, AND THERE
HAVE BEEN CONCERNS ALL WEE
ABOUT COUNTERFEIT TICKETS AN
POSSIBLE COLD WEATHER, THE
TRI-STATE AREA HAS BEE
PREPARING FOR SOMETHING ELSE
AN INCREASE IN PROSTITUTION AN
SEX TRAFFICKING.
JUST THIS WEEK THE NYPD MADE
SEVERAL ARRESTS FOR A HIGH END
ESCORT SERVICE THAT AIMED TO
DELIVER WHAT THEY CALLED PARTY
PACKS INCLUDING DRUGS AN
PROSTITUTES.
WHILE CRITICS CONTEND THAT THERE
IS NO MEASURABLE SPIKE IN SUCH
ACTIVITY AROUND BIG SPORTING
EVENTS, VICTIMS AND THOSE WH
WORK WITH THEM TELL A DIFFEREN
STORY.
IN THIS CHURCH IN MONTCLAIR, NEW
JERSEY, ONLY NINE MILES AWAY
FROM WHERE THE GAME WILL B
PLAYED TOMORROW, SISTER PAT DALY
HAS A DIFFERENT CONCERN ABOU
THE SUPER BOWL -- PROTECTING
YOUNG WOMEN SHE BELIEVES ARE
BEING EXPLOITED BY SEX
TRAFFICKERS.
>> PEOPLE DON'T REALIZE TH
UNDERSIDE OF THE CELEBRATIONS.
WE SEE SPIKES OF ADVERTISING FOR
SEX TRAFFICKING AND PROSTITUTION
IN AND AROUND LARGE SPORTING
EVENTS
>> ONE SO-CALLED SUPER BOWL WEEK
SPECIAL WE FOUND ONLINE THIS
PAST WEEK OFFERED CUSTOMERS
CHANCE TO GET OUT OF THE
FREEZING WEATHER AND GET WAR
AND COZY WITH ME
ANOTHER FROM SOMEONE CALLING
HERSELF A NEW BARBIE IN TOWN AND
CALLING HERSELF AN NFL SUPER
BOWL SECRET PROMISED
SATISFACTION IS ALWAYS
GUARANTEED
SISTER PAT SAYS TRAFFICKERS TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE INCREASED
DEMAND FOR PROSTITUTION BY
BRINGING IN GIRLS AND SOME BOY
FROM ACROSS THE REGION
THE EFFORT TO CONTRO
TRAFFICKING AT SUPER BOWLS I
ACTUALLY NOTHING NEW
FOR THE PAST THREE YEARS
STARTING IN DALLAS IN 2011, NUNS
AND OTHER ACTIVISTS HAVE
MOBILIZED TO RAISE AWARENESS O
SEX TRAFFICKING AROUND THE GAME.
ESPECIALLY OF MINORS
>> ANYONE WHO WAS INVOLVED
WHO'S 18 YEARS AND YOUNGER, IS
GOING TO BE A VICTIM OF HUMA
TRAFFICKING.
CERTAINLY WE'RE NOT GOING AFTE
PROSTITUTES.
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE'RE ABOUT.
WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO DO I
FOCUS ON WHO ARE THE PEOPLE WH
WERE REALLY -- WHO ARE REALL
BEING HELD CAPTIVE
WHO ARE -- WHO FEEL TRAPPED?
>> THE FEAR AND THE COERCION I
WHAT REALLY HOLDS SOMEONE BACK
FROM DOING WHAT THEY WANT TO DO.
>> DANIELLE DOUGLAS WHO WA
PROFILED IN A RECENT DOCUMENTARY
ABOUT SEX TRAFFICKING CALLED
"TRICKED" CLAIMS SHE KNOWS
FIRSTHAND ABOUT THE PROBLEM.
>> WHEN HE WAS LIKE BEATING ME
UP, I WAS RIGHT HERE
>> AT THE AGE OF 17 AND ABOUT TO
START HER FRESHMAN YEAR OF
COLLEGE IN BOSTON, SHE WAS
BEFRIENDED BY AN OLDER MAN WHO
DUMPED HER ON THE STREET WITHOUT
BELONGINGS AND DEMANDED SH
PROSTITUTE HERSELF
WHEN SHE DIDN'T, SHE SAID SH
WAS SEVERELY BEATEN.
>> THE WAY THAT HE TREATED M
GOT PROGRESSIVELY WORSE.
SO HE WAS VERY VIOLENT AND H
WOULD BEAT ME ALL THE TIME
HE WOULD ALSO VERBALLY ABUSE ME.
HE KEPT ME ON A VERY SHORT CHAIN
AND MADE SURE THAT I WAS ALWAY
RIGHT NEXT TO HIM.
UNLESS I WAS WITH A JOHN AND
THAT'S LIKE PART OF THEI
MANIPULATION TACTIC, TO KEEP YOU
VERY, VERY CLOSE AND NOT LET YOU
HAVE ANY TIME TO YOURSELF.
I HAD SLEEP DEPRIVATION, FOO
DEPRIVATION.
>> BY HER ACCOUNT, SHE WAS HEL
FOR TWO YEARS AND ROUTINEL
FORCED TO TURN TRICKS AT BIG
SPORTING EVENTS.
>> I WAS FORCED TO GO TO CERTAIN
AREAS WHEN THERE WERE EVENTS
LIKE CELTICS PLAYOFFS, THING
LIKE THAT.
BIG GAMES OR BIG CONCERTS.
THINGS LIKE THAT AS WELL
TO BE IN THE AREA OF THOSE
EVENTS WHERE IT WAS KNOWN FO
PEOPLE TO GO, AFTER THOSE EVENT,
BARS, RESTAURANTS OR HOTELS.
THERE'S ALCOHOL.
THERE'S USUALLY LARGE GROUPS
AND, YOU KNOW, IT'S A FORM O
ENTERTAINMENT.
THEY'RE WITH THEIR MALE FRIENDS.
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR SOMETHIN
ELSE TO CONTINUE ON AFTER THEI
MAIN EVENT
AND THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS
PEOPLE KNOW THAT
THE PIMPS KNOW THAT.
SO THEY WILL DIRECT THE PEOPLE
UNDER THEIR CONTROL WHETHER IT
BE MEN OR WOMEN OR GIRLS OR BOYS
TO THOSE AREAS
>> AND THAT'S WHY WITH THE GAM
FAST APPROACHING, SISTER PAT AND
400 VOLUNTEERS WHO WORK WITH HER
FROM CONNECTICUT TO PHILADELPHIA
HAVE BEEN REACHING OUT TO HOTELS
FROM SMALL MOTELS TO BIG CHAINS,
ASKING THEIR COOPERATION I
BLOCKING SEX TRAFFICKING FRO
THEIR LODGING.
THEY'RE ASKING HOTELS TO POS
MISSING CHILDREN'S FLYER
>> WE ARE GOING AROUND TO AL
THE HOTELS IN THE AREA AND WE'RE
ASKING THEM TO AT LEAST KEEP
THIS IN THEIR OFFICE SO THAT
THEY CAN LOOK AT IMAGES OF THE
GIRLS AND SEE IF THEY RECOGNIZ
ANYONE
>> THEY'RE ALSO ASKING THEM TO
POST THE NATIONAL HOTLINE IN
HOTEL ROOMS, AND ENCOURAGING
THEM TO TRAIN STAFF TO RECOGNIZE
THE RED FLAGS OF TRAFFICKING
>> THEY'RE CERTAINLY ASKIN
PEOPLE TO BE WATCHFUL OF
UNDERAGE CHILDREN.
AND THEN ANYBODY WHO MIGHT SEE
TO BE COERCED.
AND IT'S REALLY A SENSE OF S
MANY -- SOME OF THE STORIES WE
HAVE HEARD FROM PEOPLE IN -- O
STAFFS OF HOTELS
SAY, YEAH, WE HAVE THIS GU
FEELING.
WELL, NOW WE'RE TRYING TO TRAI
THE GUT FEELING SO THAT TH
FRONT DESK KNOWS WHAT TO DO OR
THE PEOPLE IN HOUSEKEEPING THE
CERTAINLY KNOW WHAT'S GOING ONLY
IN THE HOTEL ROOMS
>> THE ANTI-SEX TRAFFICKIN
CAMPAIGN IS PART OF A LARGER
EFFORT
SHE'S THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR O
THE TRI-STATE COALITION FO
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT WHICH
PROMOTES CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
>> THANK YOU SO VERY MUCH.
>> THEIR MESSAGE ABOUT SEX
TRAFFICKING SEEMS TO BE GETTIN
THROUGH.
THE AMERICAN HOTEL AND LODGING
ASSOCIATION WHICH REPRESENTS
MORE THAN 50,000 HOTELS, MOTELS,
LODGES AND INNS RECENTLY
DEVELOPED A TRAFFICKING TRAINING
PROGRAM.
THE ASSOCIATION GAVE US
STATEMENT, SAYING ALL EMPLOYEE
ARE EXPECTED TO COMPLY AND ARE
ENCOURAGED TO ALERT TH
AUTHORITIES IF THERE'S SUSPECTED
TRAFFICKING IN THEIR HOTEL
WHILE SOME DISPUTE THAT SE
TRAFFICKING ACTUALLY SPIKES AT
SPORTING EVENTS LIKE THE SUPER
BOWL, SISTER PAT BELIEVE
ATTENTION SURROUNDING THE GAME
PRESENTS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
PUBLICIZE THE WIDER PROBLEM.
AND IT IS ENOUGH OF A CONCER
THAT AUTHORITIES IN NEW YORK AND
NEW JERSEY HAVE FOCUSE
ATTENTION ON IT.
IN THE DAYS LEADING UP T
TOMORROW'S GAME, NEW YORK CITY
POLICE REPORTED A JUMP I
PROSTITUTION ARRESTS
SOME FOLLOWING FROM FAKE SEX ADS
POSTED BY POLICE
AUTHORITIES ALSO CRACKED DOWN ON
A SEX RING THAT THEY SAY HAD
BEEN UNDER SURVEILLANCE FO
MONTHS
AUTHORITIES SAID THEY DECIDED TO
ACT NOW IN THE HOPES O
DISRUPTING ANY PARTIES THA
MIGHT HAVE BEEN IN THE WORKS FOR
THE UPCOMING SUPER BOWL WEEKEND.
>> WHILE WE WILL ENGAGE IN
OPERATIONS THAT WE'RE GOING TO
APPREHEND PERSONS FO
PROSTITUTION, EVERY TWIST AN
TURN OF THAT PROCESS WE AR
GOING TO JUST CAMPAIGN TO SEE IF
THERE'S A POTENTIAL TO THA
PERSON BEING A VICTIM OF
TRAFFICKING.
>> THE ISSUE OF SEX TRAFFICKIN
CAME UP AT A RECENT SECURITY
BRIEFING FOR THIS GAME
>> IN THIS AREA, TROOPER, LOCA
POLICE OFFICERS, COUNTY POLICE
OFFICERS, HAVE BEEN TRAINED TO
RECOGNIZE THIS ACTIVITY AND OF
COURSE OF MOST IMPORTANCE IS
WHETHER CHILDREN ARE INVOLVED IN
THE TRAFFICKING WHICH IS
OBVIOUSLY A VERY GRIEVOUS CRIME.
SO WE ARE LOOKING TO INTERRUPT
THIS ACTIVITY WHERE AND WHEN I
OCCURS
AND WE'RE ALSO NOT JUST LOOKIN
TO MAKE NECESSARILY ARREST
ALTHOUGH THE TRAFFICKERS
THEMSELVES, BUT WE'RE LOOKING TO
RESCUE SOME PEOPLE WHO ARE
TRAPPED IN THIS LIFESTYLE.
>> DANIELLE BELIEVES THE EFFORTS
OF SISTER PAT AND OTHERS ARE
STARTING TO PAY OFF.
BECAUSE OF HEIGHTENED AWARENES
AMONG LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL
AND BUSINESS LEADERS
BUT SHE FEARS THE GAINS COUL
EASILY BE LOST
>> THE MOMENT WE DECIDE TO STO
CAUSING AWARENESS, THE PIMPS
WILL GO BACK TO TAKING THEIR
PEOPLE THAT ARE UNDER THEI
CONTROL TO THE EVENTS.
>> A THOUGHT ECHOED BY SISTE
PAT WHO'S ALREADY LOOKING AHEA
TO NEXT YEAR'S GAME.
>> WE'RE LOOKING AT A TIME TODAY
WHERE HUMAN BEINGS ARE TREATED
AS COMMODITIES, AND SO WE'RE
GOING TO CONTINUE TO BE WORKIN
TOGETHER LONG AFTER THE SUPE
BOWL LEAVES AND MOVES ON T
ARIZONA.
>> AS OUR REPORT MENTIONED
THERE IS AN AROUND THE CLOCK
NUMBER TO CALL TO REPORT SEX
TRAFFICKING.
THE NATIONAL HUMAN TRAFFICKING
RESOURCE HOTLINE CAN BE REACHE
AT 1-888-373-7888.
OPERATORS CAN TAKE CALLS IN MORE
THAN 100 LANGUAGES
WE ASKED THE NFL ABOUT SEX
TRAFFICKING AND THE LEAGUE
ISSUED A STATEMENT SAYING IT
WORKS CLOSELY WITH FEDERAL
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMEN
TO ENSURE THAT THE SUPER BOWL IS
A SAFE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE HOS
COMMUNITY AND THE FANS WHO ENJOY
THE GAME AND THE CELEBRATION
>>> MEET THE FILMMAKERS BEHIND
"TRICKED" A DOCUMENTARY ABOU
HUMAN TRAFFICKING.
VISIT OUR WEBSITE.
>>> DURING HIS STATE OF TH
UNION ADDRESS EARLIER THIS BEAK,
PRESIDENT OBAMA UNVEILED A PLA
DESIGNED TO HELP AMERICANS SAV
FOR RETIREMENT
SOMETHING HE CALLED A MYRA
FOR MORE ON THIS, WE ARE JOINE
BY THE CORRESPONDENT FOR REA
CLEAR POLITICS
FIRST OF ALL, WHAT'S THE PROBLEM
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION SAYS
THIS IS GOING TO ADDRESS
>> WELL, THE ADMINISTRATION LIKE
MANY PEOPLE, VERY WORRIED THAT
MANY WORKERS IN THE UNITED
STATES DON'T HAVE ANY OPTION
THROUGH THEIR WORKPLACE TO SAV
FOR RETIREMENT
AND IN FACT, ARE NOT PUTTING
MONEY AWAY FOR RETIREMENT AN
WILL FIND THAT SOCIAL SECURITY
ISN'T ENOUGH OR THAT THEY SHOULD
HAVE BEEN LOOKING FOR PRIVAT
OPTIONS LIKE INDIVIDUA
RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS.
SO AS PART OF HIS EXECUTIV
INITIATIVES, THE PRESIDENT WIT
THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT FINISHED
A NEW PILOT PROGRAM, GET IT UP
AND RUNNING, USE A PRIVATE
FINANCIAL OFFICIAL AS TH
ADMINISTRATOR, BUT GIVE MILLIONS
OF WORKERS WHO DON'T HAV
OPTIONS FOR THEIR EMPLOYMENT T
SAVE IN LITTLE MICROACCOUNTS
VERY RISK FREE
THEY'LL BE LOW RETURNS, BUT IT
WILL BE VERY SAFE.
AND THEY'RE DESCRIBING THIS AS A
WAY TO ALMOST HAVE A TRAINING OR
BEGINNER SAVERS ACCOUNT THAT
WOULD ALLOW WORKERS TO GET MOR
USED TO PUTTING MONEY AWAY FOR
RETIREMENT AND ACCRUE ENOUGH
THEY COULD ROLL IT OVER INTO
REGULAR IRA THAT WE'RE USED TO
WHERE WE CHOOSE THE FUNDS WE
WANT THE INVEST IN
>> ONE OF THE POINTS WE'RE
HEARING IS THAT THIS SOMETHING
THAT EMPLOYEES WOULD B
SOMETHING TO OPT OUT OF, THA
IN
>> NO, THE PRESIDENT IS SAYING
HE'D LIKE CONGRESS TO TAKE UP
SEPARATE LEGISLATIVE INITIATIV
THAT WOULD BE CALLED THE OPT
OUT.
IT'S AN AUTOMATIC IRA AN
CONGRESS IS A LITTLE RESISTANT
THAT IDEA BECAUSE THEY'R
CONCERNED IT WOULD REQUIRE
EMPLOYERS TO SIGN UP THEIR
WORKERS.
AND THEY'D PREFER A --
ESPECIALLY REPUBLICANS IT BE A
VOLUNTARY IDEA, CONTINUING THE
WAY WE'RE DOING IT NOW IN TH
RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
BUT THE PRESIDENT IS SAYIN
THERE ARE MANY STUDIES OUT THERE
THAT SUGGEST THAT WORKERS AR
MUCH MORE LIKELY TO PUT ASID
MONEY FOR RETIREMENT IF THEY'R
AUTOMATICALLY SIGNED UP FOR AN
ACCOUNT THROUGH THEIR WORKPLAC
AND THEN THEY HAVE THE CHOICE TO
OPT OUT.
AND THERE ARE MANY ACADEMI
STUDIES THAT SHOW THAT W
OVERCOME OUR INERTIA ABOUT
SAVING IF SOMEONE ACTUALLY
STARTS TO EXECUTE IT FOR US.
SO WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL
SUPPORT, THE PRESIDENT IS SAYING
HE WANTS TO CREATE THIS LITTLE
STARTER SAVING ACCOUNT, THE MY
R.A. AND TO ENCOURAGE WORKERS TO
THINK OF PAYROLL DEDUCTION
AUTOMATICALLY WITH THEIR
EMPLOYERS AND THEY WOULD ACCRU
MONEY IN A VERY SMALL WAY AN
GET MORE USED TO SAVING.
>> BRIEFLY, HOW DO THEY KNOW HOW
MANY PEOPLE WOULD SIGN UP?
>> VERY GOOD QUESTION.
AND THEY DON'T KNOW.
THEY HAVE SOME -- IN THE
ADMINISTRATION SOME BALLPARK
ESTIMATES, BUT THEY DON'T KNOW
BEHAVIORALLY HOW MANY WORKER
WOULD BE INTERESTED IN THIS, HOW
MANY EMPLOYERS WILL MAKE THIS AN
OPTION TO DO THE PAYROLL
DEDUCTION.
HOW WELL THEY'LL BE ABLE T
SPREAD THE WORD THIS I
AVAILABLE.
SO THEY'RE NOT ESTIMATING HO
MANY OTHER THAN TO SAY MAN
MILLIONS THEY HOPE AFTER THE
PILOT PROGRAM.
>> ALL RIGHT
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANKS.
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>> AND NOW TO OUR VIEWERS LIKE
YOU SEGMENT.
YOUR THOUGHTS ABOUT OUR PROGRAM.
>> EVERY DAY, HARTMAN STAF
WEIGHS AND RECORDS THE AMOUNT OF
FOOD WASTED WHEN PREPARING
MEALS.
>> OUR PIECE LAST WEEK EAR NEW
ENTREPRENEURIAL EFFORTS ABOU
FOOD WASTE WAS WELL RECEIVED
WE WERE TWEETED, IT'
ENCOURAGING TO SEE MOR
MAINSTREAM COVERAGE OF
ADDRESSING THE FOOD WAST
CHALLENGE IN THE U.S
ON THE NEWSHOUR WEBSITE, BRENT
CROCKER WROTE, WHAT A GREA
PIECE ON FOOD WASTE IN AMERICA
I'M GUILTY AND SICKENED BY THE
FOOD WE THROW AWAY EVERY DAY
I'D LOVE TO SEE MORE PROGRAMS TO
COMPOST AND RECYCLE THE FOOD W
PUT IN OUR LANDFILLS EVERY DAY
I BELIEVE THAT THE FOOD GIANTS
WOULD MAKE A HUGE DIFFERENCE I
WE COULD IMPLEMENT A COMPOSTIN
PROGRAM WITHIN THEM.
BUT JIM GORDON WROTE, COMPOSTING
IS ADMITTING DEFEAT IN MOS
CASES.
LET'S WORK TO PREVENT WASTE TO
THE POINT COMPOSTING IS THE ONLY
SALVAGE OPTION
THERE ARE TOO MANY WORKING POO
OUT THERE.
IN JAPAN, FARMERS PUT UP A
SELF-SERVICE SHACK TO OFFE
CHEAP OR FREE COSMETICALLY
CHALLENGED FOODS TO THE PUBLIC
>> THEY ALSO MEASURE THE WASTE
FROM UNTOUCHED LEFTOVER MEAL
>> A NUMBER OF YOU TOLD OF LOCAL
EFFORTS TO CURB THE FOOD WASTE
THE BIG STORES HERE IN NORTHER
INDIANA GIVE THE FOOD THAT'S
NEARING THE SELL BY DATE TO TH
FOOD BANK.
THEREFORE I BELIEVE THE FOOD
BANK AND PANTRIES SHOULD
IMPLEMENT A COMPOST PROGRAM SO
ANY FOOD LEFT OVER CAN B
COMPOSTED.
THERE ARE MANY UNITY COMMUNITY
GARDENS THAT COULD EASILY TAKE
ON THE TASK OF COMPOSTING FO
THEIR LOCAL AREA
ON FACEBOOK, STEVE WILLIAMSO
WROTE, IT'S JUST STUPID WHAT W
TOSS
ALL OF THAT COULD BE GOING T
MAKING SOIL.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT SOIL IS GOOD
FOR?
GROWING FOOD WITHOUT THE NEE
FOR TONS OF CHEMICALS.
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
FROM HAWAII, A GET TOUGH PROGRAM
THAT'S KEEPING PROBATIONERS OU
OF PRISON.
>> I THOUGHT OF THE WAY I WA
RAISED, THE WAY MY WIFE AND
WERE TRYING TO RAISE THE SON
AND IF THERE'S MISBEHAVIOR, YO
DO SOMETHING IMMEDIATELY
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.